---
layout: post
title: Fundraising 101
published: true
category: finance
tags: funding venture-capital seed term sheets VC
comments: true
---

In the startup environment of 2015, a ton of money gets distributed daily to new companies by venture capital firms, angels, institutional investors, individuals and many more actors. Some people insist that we are seeing a major bubble rise. This might be true or not but that does not change the fact that fundraising is one of the *main activities* of a startups CEO or key personnel. Many entrepreneurs that I met during my time at MIT recounted being more of a "Chief Fundraising Officer" than CEO for the first months of their companies.

This means that any head-start you can get on the fundraising process is of tremendous advantage. In a series of blogposts I want to share with you my insights from two MIT courses that I took on the matter, 10.407 - Money for Startups and 15.431 - Entreprenerial Finance. Disclaimer: I have not gone through funding processes myself yet - but I am planning to do so and I think meticulous preparation is the best way. Speaking with seasoned entrepreneurs, investors, reading blogs and my classes have helped me form a good theoretical idea that I would like to put forward to the reader. This is not a guide on how to pitch your company or how to approach potential investors. This is purely related to the finance process of fundraising. Another caveat: I will not be covering debt-financing either, this is purely equity financing related. 

<div class="message">Equity financing means giving up a percentage of your company in return for funds rather than taking on debts that will need to be repaid later on. In <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modigliani%E2%80%93Miller_theorem" target="_blank">finance theory</a>, there is supposedly no difference between the two, albeit relying on the absence of transaction costs, taxes and a whole other lot of real life issues. This article gives a good overview over the discussion of <a href="http://www.nfib.com/article/ital-50036/" target="_blank">debt- vs. equity financing</a></div>

In the following articles I want to cover seven topics, starting with number 1 below. I will frequently link to other blogs and sites that have good insights for more detailed discussions. I would like to see the blog as a forum for discussion. If you disagree with any of the content, leave a comment. If you have any experience, leave a comment. The more discussion, the better. 

1. [Sources of money]({% post_url 2015-06-20-sources-of-money %})
2. How to choose the right investor
3. Valuing ventures
4. Investment structures
5. Termsheets - what do they look like and what are the most important items?
6. The role of lawyers and legal counsel
7. Negotiations
8. The investor / VC perspective